Team 5
Alex Pamias
Clarice Silber
Erik Swann


2 Final Project Options


News Resource Preferences in College Students

As of right now, we are looking for possible ways to collect data.  We have also been looking at sites to not only find 
out how they organized their data, but also how they collected their data.  One particular site that we found was College
Break Magazine's study done back in 2013.  In the study, they surveyed 260 college students to check their usage of social
media sites like Facebook, Pinterest, and instagram.  The model for their article is not to complex but effective.  They 
created a chart with the percentages and placed it in the article for the story.  They also re-stated the percentages in 
the actual text of the story.  This leads me into the minimum viable thing that we could do for this project.  The 
minimum would probably be something like this text story model.  However, we would ideally like to do a site that 
takes the information and places it in a more interactive context.  For example, we could have a website where the
main page features different buttons highlighted with each major social media site name.  Each would take the user to a 
specific section with the stats for that site.  There could also be a page that features the stats of every site so that 
userscan actually see a side-by-side comparison.  Right now, we're not sure of how viable this would be, but with more research, 
we can see how we could go about building an interactive site.  If we could compare it to any site right now, it would 
actually be the Study Breaks site.  This will probably change as we go, but right now, this site seems like a nice template  
because it is efficient, and the homepage is clean and straightforward.


Frequency of Particular Crimes in College Park

As you mentioned in your feedback, the data for this story would be somewhat easier to obtain.  We could find this from
a few places mainly the UMPD's website.  This won't be a huge source of information, but the fact that we get alerts on
crimes that have recently occured is also somewhat helpful.  In terms of the actual site, the minimum viable thing that
we could create is a basic website that organizes the different crimes into rows and columns.  It would be similar to the
other site only it would not utilize charts. In essence, each page cataloguing each crime would look like a spreadsheet.
This would be the minimum viable thing we could do.  As we said with the other story, we ideally want something more
interactive.  In this case, we could try creating a webpage with a text story, and an interactive movable list for users
to click to access pages with different crime stats.  The pages themselves could feature interactive tools for the users to
organizethe stats in different ways like how we change things in a Pivot table.  The main page could also include a map 
with iconsto indicate where in College Park certain crimes have occured.  At this point, if we could compare this to any 
site, it would be spot crime which has a great crime browsing system and a great example of how to utilize a map on a 
homepage. An example of a site that does something similar with crime rates is NeighborhoodScout.com. The Website provides 
maps of cities divided into different neighborhoods. Users can click on specific neighborhoods and get a snapshot of the crime 
rates and statistics of that area. The website also provides information on the types of crimes that occur in each neighborhood. 
The way that they gather data is through the FBI and Justice Department along with information from all 18,000 local law 
enforcement agencies in the U.S. They developed a mathematical algorithm which would allow them to statistically estimate 
the incidences of crime for each neighborhood. For our webpage we would be looking at data from the law enforcement agency in 
College Park. 
