Clarice Silber
Alex Pamias
Erik Swann

Team 5 Project Overview

We entered this project with the idea of wanting to do a topic that affected or is related to stuents the University of 
Maryland.  With this, I developed three ideas: internet trends among college students, employment among students after
graduation, and crime frequency in College Park.  After looking over them all we decided that the crimes topic would be
interesting, and that it could provide some insightful information about the safety of College Park.

Our initial ideas for this project were very complex.  In it, we were going to categorize crimes by very specific types
like vandalism and homicide.  We were also going to include factors like gender and ethnicity.  All of this info was
going to be accessible through a map.  As the weeks went on, we came to the conclusion that this idea was a little too
ambitious for our skill level.  With this, we decided to scale it back to utilizing a map with crimes in the area that 
could be accessed through a web page.

The site that served as our early inspiration was NeighborhoodScout.  We really liked their straightforward yet visually
appealing design

http://www.neighborhoodscout.com/md/college-park/

We had also planned to get our data from them, but we did not discover until late that we had to pay for their information.
With this, we decided to just use UMPD's crime activity logs for our data.  We also settled on using the last six months
for our data.

Now, we really began on working on the bones of the project.  The first thing that we had to do was transfer the data into
a single CSV file.  We oringally wanted to use Magic to do this, but the file came out looking relatively unorganized.It 
was at this point that you suggested that we re-work our "first webscraper" from class to help us.  After finally 
re-accessing it, we still ran into a problem.  The data was accurately retrieved but the locations were put on a different
row due to the unusual set up of UMPD's tables.  At this point, you provided us with code that allowed us to loop the rows
in a different fashion to fix the problem.  After gathering all of the information, we tranfered it to Google Fusion 
Tables, and created a map.

During our data gathering, we decided to slightly alter the info that we included in our data.  To see the difference,
look at data2.csv (original) and sixmonthcrimes.csv (new).

After creating the map, we began work on the web page that we wanted for the information.  We set to work on creating a
simple web page to include the map on.  We also planned to include a brief interview with a UMPD official on the stats
that we found to be included on the page as a text element.  We thought that it would be somewhat interesting for users
to see what the police department actually had to say about the amount of crime in the area.  The page came out nicely, 
but unfortunately, at this point, we have not heard back from the official.

Amid all of this, there was one more element that we considered adding to this project.  We thought about incorporating a
Twitterbot to post on different crime events as they are added.  This way our info could reach people through social media
as well.  We thought of each tweet as being a small tagline that included the kind of crime, the location, and time of the 
crime.  For instance, one might read: "Sexual Assault at University View at 10:45 p.m."  Had we gone through with this, we
would have looked to Team 2's WMATA Twitterbot for inspiration.  Because tweets can only be so many characters, we thought 
that these would be the key facts to include in a brief tweet.  After thinking more about it, we decided that although the 
idea was nice and could have effective, it was not completely necessary to the project.

Overall, we are very happy with our project.  Although we did not add the Twitterbot, we feel that we have a solid scraper
which was not only effective in retrieving our data, but could be used for other data as well.  We are particularly proud
of the map as it serves as the most informative and interactive element of our piece.  We also believe that we have a 
very simple yet direct page that users can go to find information about crime in their area.  If we were to keep and 
publish this as a real site, we would definitely find ways to update its look and add other elements to it. Also, if we 
kept using this site we would use the scraper to update our data and add it to our map.  Although the project is not as 
big as we once thought it would be, we are still pleased with the results.  Everything works relatively well, and the 
project does what we wanted it to do: inform people of important crime data.We worked hard and with your help, we were able
to overcomme some key obstacles.  